Well hello friends and thank you for joining me in our daily reading from God's holy word
Today we're reading Mark chapter 12,
13-27. And in this lesson, we see Jesus demonstrate his wisdom and understanding. 13-27.
As he refutes those who sought to trap him.
And trip him up.
Now before we read, let's pray.
Our Father in Heaven, help us hear and believe Jesus.
In his name, I ask it.
Amen.
Mark.
Chapter 12, beginning in verse 13.
And they sent to him some of the Pharisees and some of the Herodians.
To trap him in his talk.
And they came and said to him, Teacher, we know that you are true and do not care about anyone's opinion.
For you are not swayed by appearances, but truly teach the way of God.
Is it lawful?
To pay taxes to Caesar,
or not.
Should we pay them?
Or should we not?
But knowing their hypocrisy, he said to them, Why put me to the test?
Bring me a denarius and let me look at it.
And they brought one, and he said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this?
They said to him, Caesar's.
Jesus said to them,
Render to Caesar.
The things that are Caesar's.
and to God,
The things that are God's.
And they marvelled at him.
And sadducees came to him who say that there is no resurrection, and they asked him a question, saying, Teacher.
Moses wrote for us that if a man's brother dies and leaves a wife but leaves no child, the man must take the widow and raise up offspring for his brother.
other.
There were seven brothers. The first took a wife.
And when he died, left no offspring, and the second took her.
And died, leaving no offspring, and the third likewise, and the seven left no offspring. Last of all, the woman also died.
In the resurrection, when they rise again,
Whose wife will she be?
For the seven have had her.
As wife.
Jesus said to them,
Is this not the reason you are wrong, because you know neither the scriptures?
"nor the power of god."
For when they rise from the dead, they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
And as for the dead being raised, have you not read in the book of Moses, in the passage about the bush?
Have God spoke to him, saying,
I am the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob.
He is not God of the dead,
But of the living,
You
Are quite wrong.
So Jesus defends the truth in two encounters.
The Pharisees and Herodians seek to trap him about taxes and loyalty to God. The Sadducees seek to make him trust.
Make his trust in God's word concerning the resurrection.
Look foolish.
Let's take them in turn.
And that's actually our first lesson. Never be surprised when people who otherwise disagree and oppose each other stand together to oppose Jesus.
And that's because Jesus is polarizing. You are either with him or against him.
Those who are against him.
See that he's the biggest threat to them.
So they'll conspire against him and his church, try to make God's word look foolish.
yet.
So often,
They've never even read his word.
Now,
Notice the subtlety of the first question.
Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? Should we pay them?
Or should we not?
Now, if he had said, pay them, the Pharisees would have accused him before the priests.
For supporting the Roman subjection of the Jews.
If he said, don't pay them, the Herodians would have accused him before Pilate of rebellion and sedition.
So the trap was crafty, like Satan himself.
then what are the rights of our governors and the state?
And the rights of God and his church. it raises that question, and many Christians have struggled to navigate those waters. What?
If the state is at odds with the church, what if our governors are at odds with God?
Jesus
Impresses us with his wisdom.
He knew the mystery, the hypocrisy,
Of his enemies.
He knew they used the common coin of the realm,
so he says.
Bring me one.
Then he asks,
whose face is on it.
They answered Caesar's.
By their own words, they acknowledge they have some duty to the governing authority. They use its money.
So he says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. You have obligations, he says, it matters temporal, and.
And spiritual.
Pay taxes, in temporal things, give honor to God, in spiritual things. In short, says J. C. Ryle, he bids the proud Pharisee.
See, not to refuse his dues to Caesar, but
And the worldly Herodian, not to refuse his dues to God.
As the Apostle Paul says:
In Romans 13:7,
Pay to all what is owed to them, taxes to whom taxes are owed.
Revenue to whom revenue is owed.
respect,
To whom respect is owed, honour to whom honour is owed.
Or as the apostle Peter says in first Peter two.
Live as people who are free
Not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil
But living the servants of God.
Honor everyone.
Love the brotherhood.
Fear God,
Honor the Emperor.
We are to submit
To God,
By obeying our earthly governors, unless they command what he forbids, or forbid what he commands.
Today amidst the coronavirus, I'm thankful for the wisdom of our Arkansas governor in never commanding the closing of churches, even.
While encouraging physical distancing in every place.
Keep,
Praying friends for our governor and for our church's elders, that we would all.
Honor God.
Now, in the second confrontation with the Sadducees, they ask him whom a widow will be married to in heaven.
If she has been married multiple times, they try to make the Old Testament hope of resurrection seem ridiculous. This is because, as Jesus says, they are ignorant.
and don't believe in God.
"'Jesus said to them, "'Is this not the reason you are wrong?'
Because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God.
Let us determine, friends, to not be like them.
How sad it is to be ignorant of the Bible, yet rail against it.
And how harmful!
ignorance leaves us without hope when there is so much to be hopeful for.
The Sadducees didn't believe in the resurrection or the power of God, but Jesus tells them they are wrong, and he proves it in two ways. First, he says.
When we rise from the dead, we neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven.
Life in heaven.
will be different than on earth.
Though our body will rise from the dead,
We shall hunger no more, and thirst no more. There will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain.
And in heaven, we will all be brothers and sisters in the household of God.
But we will not have marriage binding one man to one woman that
Doesn't mean
Husbands and wives and families here can't spend time together or love one another. There, of course, will love. Heaven is a reunion.
In a world of love in ways you and I haven't yet begun to enjoy.
But the marriage of heaven is between Jesus and his bride.
The church.
Secondly, Jesus says you're wrong because God is the God of the living.
And the Bible says he's the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Not that he was the God of them as if they are dead, but that he is the God of them because they live with.
Live with him.
His power to give life,
is our hope.
if in christ we have hope in this life only.
We are, of all people, most to be pitied.
but in fact christ has been raised from the dead and the dead in christ.
Shall rise.
Therefore,
My beloved brothers and sisters
Be steadfast.
Immovable.
Always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord.
Your labor is not
In vain.
Let's pray together.
Our Heavenly Father, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, we praise you for Jesus, whom you raised from the dead and exalted over every name.
We bow and confess that he is faithful.
King of kings and Lord of lords.
Help us.
To hope in him.
big man
Well, thank you for listening.
And I hope you'll join me next time.